Hello everyone, welcome to the Grand Prequel Pod.
This week we will be doing our preview of F1 Academy,
which starts in China next weekend at the time of recording.
Our hosts this week are Alex @monzabanking on Twitter,
and Peter @ln4mcqueen on Twitter as well.
I want to mention, which I think is really funny,
is that we're filming this right on the International Women's Day,
which is, you know, just a little nice fact of this.
Yeah, I mean, apart from the fact we have no women recording.
It is not my fault that I'm the biggest shooter for women in motorsports in this podcast group.
Yeah, I guess we can just dive right into it.
So, in PREMA, we have Peyton Westcott, Matilda Paatz,
and Natalia Granada.
Yeah, so I would start right out with Peyton Westcott,
because I think she's genuinely considered one of the most interesting drivers.
And if you saw recently on the F1 Academy Instagram,
there was like a little post where they asked,
Doriane Pin, Abbi Pulling, and Alice Powell,
who they think will be doing best this season?
Like, who's going to be a standout rookie?
Who's going to be the biggest surprise?
Who's going to be a champion?
And I…
So, Doriane Pin obviously mentioned her,
because she's her replacement, you know, kinda, for Mercedes.
But I think, in general, she's one of the drivers that are rated heavy,
because she's with PREMA, she's with Mercedes,
she's, you know, doing a lot of stuff.
And if we look at how she did in Vegas last year,
where she was a wild card,
I think P6 in the sprint was not bad either.
And I think, I don't quite remember,
but I swear her main race was not that bad either.
And I'd also like to add on,
we have seen her in other F4 series.
In Formula Trophy, in the, I think it was November, December time last year,
she took her win.
She was taking part in the F4 UAE with PREMA.
Despite missing the last round,
she was still quite consistent, I feel like,
kind of in that, like, kind of the top end,
just being outside of the points, getting a few points as well,
which is a very good showing,
because overall, the UAE4 field is quite competitive, I feel like.
I mean, UAE4 was absolutely magnificent, if you ask me.
What I want to point out is that it's heavily rumored that she will do,
or is it even announced, that she will do a double campaign with PREMA,
and will do Italian F4 again.
But the thing is, I'm worried a bit,
because I think she's one of those drivers that could really fight for wins and stuff already.
But I don't know if PREMA is possible to support her in the way that it would be needed, you know?
They've been the team's champion in the last three seasons.
They've won the, you know, driver's championship twice.
They should be able to do it again.
But if you look at, I feel like even in UAE4,
they were not necessarily as strong as they used to be in F4.
Yeah, definitely.
But at least with her, she also has this Mercedes support,
which should also help her a lot,
because I think with Doriane, they helped a lot.
And yeah, I think another thing she may also a bit struggle with is just,
in F1 Academy, the calendar circuit is so different to traditional F4 circuits.
She has run more street races, so that may be more of a struggle for her.
As a rookie, compared to returning drivers, who have years of experience on these tracks.
But I think it'll be interesting to see how well she can do with also adjusting to these circuits.
And I mean, you mentioned Mercedes has probably one of the best simulators.
And I think they should be able to really help her out.
And I think she should be one of the rookies that I expect to, like, be definitely-
I think she's arguably even the rookie that I could expect really to be the highest.
I agree, definitely.
I want to move on to Matilda Paatz, because she's the one that I want to b-
I want her to be the best rookie, because she's really dear to me.
She's, you know, she's 17.
She's German.
She's supported by Aston Martin, which she didn't just get, you know, because she did anything.
But as we found out some months ago, there was an Aston Martin shootout kind of test with Prema,
where they, you know, had like, I think it was five to seven girls.
And there was also Lisa Blyard around and some others.
And they let them drive.
And she was the fastest.
And that's how she got this backing, which is, I think, kind of proving my point that she has obviously quite a lot of experience.
She has podiums in Central European Zone F4 and Formula Winter Series.
She finished eighth last season in Central European Zone Formula 4.
That's a horrific name, but whatever.
And I'm unsure how the team she's with in that series can, you know, help her, because she's with Matilda Racing, the racing team that her father founded.
And they're making their first steps into F4.
So I think she's like, not even in one of the best teams in Central European Zone F4.
So for that, I think she's doing really well.
And she was around in Montreal, where I feel like last season was really sad, because Montreal was really not a good weekend.
There was a lot of crashes.
There was a lot of adjusting, because the track is not really suited for, you know, smaller single-seaters.
And this, I think, she has retired twice.
And her best finish was P11.
It was kind of sad, but I think she should be the one in my heart who could really fight for the best rookie.
One thing I'd like to add on is, even in, if she can have the best team in CEZ F1- F4 I mean, she's still good in that all-important track time.
And at the F4 level, it's just, you just need to be getting those laps in the car.
And that experience can hopefully help her bring pace to the other races.
And it's all a learning curve in this level of racing.
Yeah, I mean, I agree.
But the last point that I wanted to point out is, she's with Aston Martin, which does worry me a bit.
Because I had high hopes that just because she's German, she would get picked up by Mercedes.
Or even Audi.
I mean, Audi was pretty clear that they would stay with Emma Felbermayr.
But the point for me is, Aston Martin recently had Tina Hausmann.
And who was it before her?
Oh, she was Prema?
No, because I swear they had, was it Jessica Hawkins, who they, not supported in F1 Academy necessarily, but who they, you know, worked with.
Yeah, no, she's on Sky, I see on Sky Sports and stuff sometimes.
And the problem is that Aston Martin, with both of these drivers, was a bit, they were criticized because they did not really develop, especially Tina Hausmann, in any, you know, big way.
Because it should have been a possibility to, for her, especially in her second season, to become better.
And, you know, there was often Jessica Hawkins around, but it didn't feel like they were doing any impact.
At the same time, Emma Feblermayr has the same kind of support with Carrie Schreine, but it felt like they were doing a lot more.
And, I mean, Emma Feblermayr was also doing, like, a double campaign, while Tina Hausmann didn't.
And we don't know how much of that is a lack of funding.
But I really hope that Matilda Paatz will also get the support when she does Central European Zone F4, technically on her own.
But if she gets support by Aston Martin, you know, I mean, the tracks to drive it, I don't think, I think only the Red Bull Ring should be, you know, familiar to the F1 team.
But I hope they support her more.
Yeah, and then the final driver for PREMA is Natalia Granada, who's expected to be with Weller in terms of, like, her support, in a way.
But I think she is kind of the least experienced out of all of them.
But she does have an Iron Dames connection, I believe.
Yeah, I mean, the drivers I mentioned so far, Peyton Westcott has a full season.
I think Matihilda Paatz even has two full seasons in F4.
Natalia Granada, at 18, she's the oldest out of the bunch,
will make her single-seater debut only here.
She finished in the rookie tests 7th and 8th, which can be kind of put down to the fact that she's one of the few out of the rookie tests who, you know, has either never really driven a single-seater car before or hasn't done a lot of testing.
Which maybe she actually did with Iron Dames, but I haven't heard of it.
Yeah, but I think she started karting a bit later.
She started at 11, compared to, you know, typically she started a lot younger.
So maybe that explains why she was making her F4 debut a bit later as well.
I could imagine what I saw is that, she was doing also like sports cars and trying it out.
And I could imagine it's really for her, also the fact that sponsoring is so difficult still,
because if you do not come from a wealthy family, if you do not come from a country that's really, that has, you know, huge setups to support you.
It's really difficult to still find that first sponsoring..
Even at the lower F4 series, it still gets like crazy expensive.
It makes it so hard for drivers.
And yeah, hopefully, I mean, I believe in rookie testing.
She was doing decently.
So I mean, we won't truly know until China because testing is testing.
To be fair, out of the drivers that we only know from the rookie test, I think she was actually the worst.
And she was like the worst that was still picked, which makes me worry a bit.
Because everyone was kind of hoping for Alexia Danielsson, who, you know, was also rookie testing and finished just above her, would get a seat.
But, you know, we don't know what happens behind the scenes.
And that's what makes me a bit nervous.
Because in every other F4 series, we know, you know, drivers approach teams, teams approach drivers.
It's like, “hey, I have money, I can pay.”
With F1 Academy, you have this as part of the livery sponsor.
And it confuses me just a little bit how they do it.
And it seems to be really kind of, I mean, it seems really, really weird at times.
I think she's the one who I'm kind of the most concerned about maybe, because she definitely is the rookie with the least experience.
Because all of the others have some sort of F4 experience before.
But she doesn't have much and it's a massive unknown for her.
I think we'll see because I think her backing with the Iron Dames should really support her.
Because, you know, they have experience.
And they have had her testing karts before.
I saw on her Instagram so recently, she's been testing.
The question is just how much experience can she do?
And I expect her to do the worst out of PREMA because, you know, everyone else is kind of this person who already got a lot of experience or is with great teams and has similar sessions.
She will be with Wella.
What she was supposed to do, like, she really starts on the backfoot..
Very contrasting to the Campos lineup.
Alisha Palmowski, backed by Red Bull.
One of the title favorites, I would say.
I want to crash out about Alisha Palmowski for a second here.
Because she is by far my favorite driver out of this series.
And it's very important for me.
Because I want to tell a little story,
because she was in 2024.
she was the wildcard driver for Qatar, I think it was.
And before, they were doing mid-season testing.
And at the time, there was only, like, you know, unnamed driver who will be the wildcard.
And I took it upon myself.
And I found out it was her.
And since that day, I've been her biggest fan.
Because she's been so far incredible in the things that she has done.
Last year, she was P5 in F1 Academy.
Like, second best rookie.
And I think some of it can be traced down to the fact that she had Chloe Chambers on her team.
Who was obviously even more in the fight.
Who was more experienced in F1 Academy.
And they kind of took points from each other at times.
Where Ella Lloyd, you know, was pretty much by far the best in her team.
And didn't really have anyone to fight with in her own team.
But what I really want to point out.
And what I'm still mad about,
is that in 2024, she was runner-up in GB4.
With multiple wins.
You know, podiums.
Everything.
And GB4 introduced a thing that I still think is beautiful.
And I thank GB4 for it every day.
in which they give a certain amount of money
as sponsoring towards an F1 Academy suit.
And it sounds not like a lot.
But I swear for her, Alicia was like £30,000 pounds or something.
And that's a huge sum for a driver who's pretty much gone through her entire career this far,
just on scholarships and money she's kind of made by proving her worth.
Next to Jamie Chadwick, she's the only one to earn the Ginetta Junior scholarship.
Which she did like back in 2022.
And she was pretty good in Ginetta’s too.
She's really someone who I think is an incredible driver.
And I'm really sad though,
because she's sadly pretty old considerably for F4 already at 19 years old.
And you know, F1 is not in the cards anymore.
Especially because even if she wins the season and gets seats sponsored for FRECA,.
she would need to somehow find money there,
because she's one of those drivers that seems to really not be favored by sponsors.
Which I think is super, super disappointing.
Because look what she does.
Funnily enough, I would say.
Even though she's one of the older ones,
she's actually youngest on her team.
And she's still considered by far, you know, the favorite for the team.
She will be the favorite.
And you know, the predictions I mentioned earlier with Doraine Pin, Abbi Pulling and Alice Powell,
all of them said that she would win this championship,
and I think so too,
and I hope so.
Because if she doesn't, I really worry for what will become of her career,
because I think she could do also great in other series.
But I would love for her to be able to go to GB3.
Which, in my opinion, she should have been able to do after 2024.
How do you come, run her up in the championship and not be able to get sponsored to move up?
It just doesn't make sense to me.
I've seen it.
Boys from the series, they can place 10th without a single podium or win,
they can get sponsors to go to GB3.
She's runner up.
she won her first ever single-seater race,
but she cannot get the sponsor.
I think it's horrific.
I think the main hope for her is for 2027 to target GB3.
And she is probably one of the drivers who impressed me the most last year.
Like, as you said, her and Chambers were taking points off each other, whereas Lloyd was the lead driver in her team.
But yeah, I think she has a lot to prove this season, and I'm excited to see it.
And then, alongside her, we have Rafaela Ferreira,
she's 20 years old with VCARB.
.
She struggled quite a bit last year.
she finished 12th overall.
And the year before, she did Brazil F4.
And all of those, she did take three wins.
all of those wins were at one track.
So, I would say it…
We should go to that track.
Yeah.
To be fair, F4 and Interlagos, that would be a great weekend to have at F1 Academy.
That would be beautiful, actually.
If money wasn't an issue…
When I think about her, I wonder how far the…
I mean, she was doing fairly poorly last season.
she was by far the weakest link in the Campos lineup.
And I wonder how far the problem was.
If she's just, you know, not a great driver, which, you know, we can't already say that.
I feel horrible for saying it.
Or, and I could really imagine that being the problem.
If it's the problem that she's moving on from F4 Brazil, you know, she comes from this South American national championship,
which is incredibly different to being in F1 Academy, which is in different cars, internationally,
different circuits, different, you know, race, how they work.
A totally different grid.
And I think this could be one of the things that I worry about for her.
Because as a Brazilian, she will always have it more difficult than someone located in, especially Great Britain.
Because for some reason, Great Britain is really up on top with those few drivers too.
But I really hope that she will be able to, you know, kind of take that experience that she made last season.
And the last season that really, it was not great.
It was very difficult.
she was struggling.
And I hope that we can trace it back to the fact that moving from Brazil to international racing is just a really difficult step for everyone.
Not just for her, but for every single male driver that moves from an F4 series that's like local to a country that's unusually represented on feeder series calendars.
It's always difficult.
Then finally at Campos, we have Megan Bruce, who is in the Tag Heuer car.
She did race a bit last year,
she was a replacement at Singapore.
And she finished P12 and P13 respectively in each races, which I would say it's decent given her kind of a last minute stand in.
I think she's interesting because I remember from her last season that she was doing GB4 in hopes of, kind of gaining that female driver's trophy.
So she could reach F1 Academy, but I feel like Tag Heuer majorly picked her up, after she was the injury replacement at Singapore instead, which is fine because she did, as far as I remember, she missed a GB4 round.
And because of that, she missed the female trophy, which she was leading up until that point.
And for her, I think, again, it's a bit sad.
She's 21.
She's realistically not really doing any moves.
And she's one of those drivers where I'm like, it would have been great to see her on the grid, say, five years ago.
But also, and what I think is really interesting about her, I swear, I read somewhere that she mentioned that F1 Academy was like the first time she was really, that she saw it was like possible to, for even girls to, you know, get further into single series, really do it.
Because before that, she was doing other series.
I don't quite remember what she was doing, but it was not single series and she was really into karting and stuff.
And that's like, I think it helped, I assume that it helped her gain the confidence and sponsors to be able to reach F1 Academy at this point.
Which is, I think, a sign that F1 Academy is working.
We have this huge increase of women who see the opportunity and also brands seeing the opportunity that there is a place to move up.
Do we want to continue to MP?
Yeah, so MP have Nina Gademan, Alba Larson and Esmee Kosterman racing for them.
Nina Gardeman, 20 years old, with Alpine.
I mean, for me, she's pretty much the exact same conversation as we had with Megan Bruce.
She's, I think, she did really great in some races.
I think, especially 2024, she had some really, really standout performances, which is why I was kind of happy to see her on the F1 Academy grid.
But she's 20.
I would have loved if she was 16 and doing this.
But from her career, I remember reading that, as far as I remember, she was racing at some point, but had to step away because of funding issues.
And only was able to, you know, go back and afford it because of this rise in sponsorship for female drivers in British F4 and now F1 Academy.
I want to point out something, which, she had the preseason accident in China last season where she was really hurt.
And at times we were even worried that she wouldn't be able to, you know, go racing again.
Because as far as I remember, it was, she hurt like, what was it, her spine, I think.
And in Zandvoort, in her home race, she had to miss, I think it was free practice because she was in pain.
And that really made it worse for me, because I know she would have been able to perform even better if that was not the case.
I think she could’ve been up in the conversation with Ella and Alicia if it was not for that, you know, crash and that injury.
It's a fair point to make because this sport, people forget how dangerous it can be.
And having something like a mass- it will take a huge amount of toll on you.
I mean, it's perfectly natural, I think.
And you would kind of maybe have that element of doubt creeping in in the way that, “oh, that happened last time, do I really want to push it so hard here?”
I think she was able, especially towards the end of last season, we saw her improve really hard.
And I think she was able to, you know, physically get well, but also just improve her racing.
And I think it's great that she does not like have any sort of, you know, fear or any sort of worry that will hold her from racing.
But I really hope that in the next season, she will be able to really show what she's able to be.
For me, she was one of the most exciting rookies.
And she was one of those drivers that I expected to do incredibly well,
and it was so disappointing to see that being taken away from her for none of her own fault, really.
Yeah, so hopefully, you know, we can see and kind of get her confidence back, you know, to a new season, a fresh start.
And hopefully she can be up there with even like Alba Larson, her teammate, who, again, I'd say she has a lot of potential to step up.
She is quite popular as well, I would say.
She's with Ferrari.
She's doing a double campaign with British F4.
She's another big name.
I don't quite think she would be in a title fight.
I think that would be Palmowski and Lloyd.
But I do expect her to maybe get a win or so here and there.
I think Ferrari should be really, really great for her.
Because I've pointed it out some time ago that Ferrari is one of those drivers, I mean, that I really like.
Because you know that they support the drivers,
you can see it in the way that they show up and the way that they do like training camps,
and the way that they really, really involve the drivers.
And I think that's something that Alba Larsen probably really needed.
Because she's pretty young.
She also looks pretty small, in my opinion.
And so it's really difficult probably for her to pull up the amount of muscles that you need to drive that car.
But I expect her with the support of Ferrari and, you know, the trainers and all that health stuff that comes with it,
that she could really improve this season.
And I think it's really sad for her that, you know, you have Ella Lloyd and Alicia Palmowski who both shouldn't be here.
Because I think they should be at least in GB3.
Because usually Alba Larson is the kind of driver that I think F1 Academy should be targeting,
and who should be winning.
And she would be winning if she wasn't going up against drivers who have like a bunch of more seasons of experience.
Who are a lot older, you know.
Who have so much support throughout the years that they've been able to.
They've outgrown F4 in any way but physical.
Yeah, and yeah.
She did improve a lot last year.
Like, she showed throughout the season.
And I mean, didn't she take pole at Vegas or something?
No.
Pretty much all pole positions go on to Chloe Chambers.
But she, I think she qualified on P2 or P3 or something.
Yeah, I remember.
Unfortunately, the race didn't go her way.
But I remember her doing quite a strong quality performance.
And she improved a lot as the year went on.
She was also really, really consistent if I remember correctly.
Because I swear that when I did the statistics, I realized that if we talk about like really proper rookie drivers.
Drivers who haven't, you know, done as much before this.
She was like by far the best out of the bunch.
And also, if we only count like the F1 Academy rookies, she would have been the third best.
But in the actual standings, including everyone else, Nina Gademan takes that point.
Because at some point, you know, the points become so difficult that even if she was really consistent and often finished, like I think P5 and P7,
if you take that away and you only count the rookies, she's like third best rookie quite often.
She is definitely one to watch the season, I think.
And then finally, we have Esmee Kosterman, who also I think is quite solid.
She did choose the Zandvoort wildcard last year.
And she was the best performing wildcard.
I remember seeing her in Zandvoort the weekend prior, not the weekend prior, but some weekends prior when she was doing British F4, which a lot of F1 Academy drivers did that weekend.
Because, you know, they were preparing for Zandvoort and they were getting their mileage wherever they could.
And I think she was pretty solid even in Zandvoort back then, because even in the mixed field, she was doing pretty fine.
Again, my only thought about her is, I wish she could have been here like a few years earlier.
She's 20.
Just imagine if she was able to do the same, but at like 16, 17.
It would be glorious and I would really root for her, I think.
She seemed to me to take it really serious and to really take the chance after moving from some championships that I have never heard of, like the Ford Fiesta Spring Cup Benelux.
I don't know what that is, but I think it proves that she's one of those who- she wants to race and she races everything she can.
And it's such a shame that just because she's a woman, she's not getting the support any male doing the same would get.
I think it's pretty cool she's with a brand like Lego and it seems like Lego are doing quite a bit as well, because, you know, even one of the Speed Champions is now her F1 Academy car.
I will be buying that.
So that's also a great way from the publicity side of things, because I think funding has been a bit of an issue for her.
So hopefully this way she can get her name out more properly and further.
I'm saying, I don't give a **** you can ask for 30 euros for that.
I don't give a f- I will buy it, I need it.
And I would really like if they did like, a little charity kind of thing, where some proceeds go through, go to woman support or something, because I think that would be beautiful.
But Lego is capitalist and they ain't doing anything for me.
So we move on to Rodin, who I think have one of the most interesting lineups, actually, because they will be doing things.
But everyone will not expect them to be doing things, especially Emma Feblermayr.
because, you know, she won last season technically twice, but she got disqualified once.
That was kind of difficult.
But she's with Audi again at 19.
She's doing her second season.
Last season, she made her debut in single-seater racing.
And I think for that, she did really, really well, actually.
I mean, I think she was really on that level of like Alba Larsen.
So I think we were pretty close.
Yeah, and it's a bit unfair to measure them against the likes of maybe Ella Lloyd or Alisha Palmowski who had experience before.
They weren't complete rookies, like…
I hope she's…
Last year, she did Spanish F4 as a double campaign, finished 29th.
Sadly, I think quite often things cut over and she didn't do a full campaign, but she was only in like very few weekends.
I hope she does it again because last I remember, I think Spanish F4 does not have a single overlap with F1 Academy this season.
And if she can make up the money to even go to a better team, that would be really glorious.
And I would like to see it.
I would like her to do things in general.
But also what I want to point out, her family is involved in…
I don't even know if it's considered sports cars, but I think LMP2 or LMP3.
Her father and her brother drive that.
So, you know, I think that if single-seaters look unlikely for her in the long term,
I do hope that she at least gets to stay in racing and like in the family business.
That would be great.
And then moving on, Ella Lloyd is probably the…
I mean, the other title…
It's going to be between her and Palmowski for the title.
Exactly.
Backed by McLaren.
And she has a lot of McLaren support.
Who also…
She does Formula…
She did do Formula E tests with them when they were in FE.
She in general has quite a lot of support, I feel like, because she has…
You know, she was with McLaren FE, but now she's doing testing again with Envision in Formula E.
And we saw it with Chloe Chambers and like Abbi Pulling.
If they can, you know, show their worth in the testing, they can be retained.
Because I remember last season, the female driver test, Chloe Chambers was faster in the first test or something than a full-season male driver.
And if she can do the same, I could really see her getting a seat in…
I'm sorry, that was my cat.
If she can show, just like Chambers, that she's great, I think she could be getting a Formula E seat.
Especially in GEN4, where there's like rumors that the cars will be even better to drive.
Especially for female drivers, because they will be like power steering and stuff.
So I think she's one to really watch, because of all the support that she's getting.
She's also supported by every single British supporting thing.
It's like British... she's like British racing stars, something.
BRDC.
Exactly, thank you.
And she was her highest place rookie last year.
Narrowly beating Palmowski, so…
Like, she's performed well in British F4 as well.
She was 11th with 4 podiums.
I missed her podium in Zandvoort.
Because I saw her race at Zandvoort in person.
And I hope that I can go to Zandvoort again this year, because I expect a lot of female drivers will be doing it again.
And I saw her race in person, and she was doing really, really good, actually.
I can tell from my own eyes what she did.
Yeah, and I think McLaren, like Mercedes, do give quite a good support.
And hopefully McLaren can give that same support to Ella Stevens.
Because, you know, we have the battle of the Ellas in Rodin.
Can we just call them 3E?
Because it's just…
Yeah.
Emma, Ella, Ella
And Ella Hakkinen.
She's not old enough yet, but she will be joining soon.
We just need a team of all Ella’s, the Ella team.
But I think even Emma is so close to the name Ella that I will be saying it wrong at least once this season.
Ella Feblermayr.
Maybe she should change her name.
Yeah, but…
Yeah, but Stevens.
Ella Stevens.
Wait, can you give me a second?
I need to get my cat.
Okay, so Ella Stevens.
Yeah, so she is, I'd say, probably one of the most exciting rookies again.
She's done really well in karting.
And the fact that McLaren has picked it up alongside Ella Lloyd says quite a bit, I think.
When I researched her, I found quite a lot of interesting stuff.
Because she is, in general, in karting, she was rated, like, incredibly high.
Like, you wouldn't believe it.
She was rated so high.
I found some posts from, like, before F1 Academy was a thing.
That's important to me.
That, like, Ferrari was, you know, looking at her.
And she had the possibility of, and with Ferrari, which I don't know how much of that is true.
But just the fact that they were implying that is- my cat is really annoying me right now.
Just the fact that they were implying that is low-key crazy if you think about it.
And she was mentioned on a list of, like, the biggest female talents to watch next to drivers like Maya Weug, Jamie Chadwick.
Like, huge drivers who we know are really great.
And if the rumors are true, then I think she's really, really one to watch.
And she's really one who could kind of, you know, be the standout rookie that no one kind of expected Emma and Alba to be last season.
Even if she's not winning the championship, I think she could, maybe she could go away with a podium or win at some point.
Yeah, because she has never raced F4 before.
So, as you said, like Larsen last year, she's a complete newbie.
She is very exciting and although she's a bit on the older side, she is the sort of driver who F1 Academy has made for,
their first F4 experience and it's going to be fun.
I wish we could have picked her up sooner.
It would have been so glorious.
It would have been so beautiful.
Even 2 years ago, even for like 2024.
I mean, I've said it, it's not like she's just come into karting.
She's been rated as a female karting driver for many years.
Even before F1 Academy was a thing.
Even like years ago, it was like posts about.
“Oh my God, there's this 12-year-old driving cars and she's really good at it.”
And it would have been great to see her be picked up sooner.
But I hope that's something that we can improve for the next few F1 Academy seasons.
Because we are already going down, girl.
You know, he literally had a BBC article made about her in 2018.
That's what I mean.
Like she's like 12 and I was like, oh my God, this is 12-year-old.
She's like.
Yeah, when she was 11.
Oh my God.
Is she 12? Is she 11? It's such a difference, I'm sorry.
I'm so sorry for every 12-year-old out there.
Moving on.
So we're always talking about old drivers.
How about we talk about a team where we cannot, under any circumstances, complain about the age?
ART with the lineup of Kaylee Countryman, Jade Jacquet and Lisa Billard.
16-year-old, which is the youngest you can be in this.
You have to be 16 due to the need for an international license.
Also, Kaylee and Jade, I'm pretty sure, only turned 16 pretty recently.
Because I swear, Kaylee turned 16 this year and Jade turned 16 like November or December last year.
So that's like really the youngest that you can get around here.
Like you can't get any younger pretty much because then you have to like, you know, not race because you're too young.
Cause unfortunately, you do have to be 16, not 15.
But yeah, Kaylee Countryman is the youngest driver.
She has come from doing USF2000, which is on that road to Indy ladder.
Sponsored by Haas, proper American, I guess.
Yeah, I think it's really interesting because if Cadillac had come in this season already,
,
I think she would have probably been picked up by Cadillac.
Just like, I mean, it's a great thing.
I think even if she's not like going into the F1 road of things,
because she's also doing USF, is she doing USF Juniors or USF2000 this season?
I think she's USF Juniors last year and she's doing USF2000.
I'd also be really glad if we had, you know, a female IndyCar driver soon.
Definitely, and like road to Indy is great in the way that, you know, it's very kind of more natural progression, I'd say, compared to the F1 ladder.
So, and doing F1 Academy just gets you that all important track time.
The only worry that I have about her is that she's coming from America and we've seen it, that making that step from America to, I mean, it's not really European because we're like all over the world.
But I could imagine that the way that F1 Academy feels European and the way that they race like most European F4s, you know, the car is used heavily in Europe.
And all the teams, all the teams are based in Europe.
And I could imagine that this could really put her on a back foot because you have drivers like Jade Jacquet and Lisa Billard who are like French, and ART is French.
Like, you know, they can be much more directly at the team.
They have a much more direct way of communicating with, you know, the team.
They can test, they test with FFSA.
Kaylee Countryman has to fly to Europe every time if she like wants to use a European simulator, which I assume ART has.
And then she has to probably fly back to America with a race in America, which is kind of really impractical if you think about it.
But then on the flip side, she could get a really good experience in Europe and take it over to America.
I've seen the drivers coming from maybe F2, F3 and then going to America and they can perform really well.
So it could help her in the long run as well, I would say.
Yeah, I think the track time and also the funding will be really, really good for her.
And I think the one thing that I'm worrying about is does Haas have a simulator now?
I remember back in 2024, they did not have one.
And I'm worried that they still don't have a simulator.
I hope they have a simulator.
She really has the disadvantage that Haas is like from, you know, supporting the drivers.
They're a small team that's difficult for them, which is really sad.
And it will not help her in comparison to Jade Jacquet, who was supported by Williams.
Yeah, so she was in French F4 last year.
Unfortunately, even if she was old enough, when she turned 16 to do F1 Academy, she wasn't able to, as they annoyingly don't allow double campaigns.
Didn't she turn 16 like in November or December?
Not too sure.
Because I swear, I remember reading something at the Williams website that she just turned 16 very recently.
Oh yeah.
December of 2009.
The problem with French F4 is really that they do not allow double campaigns, which I think is sad, especially this season, because she will only be able to do F1 Academy.
When I think doing a second season in French F4 could really be good for her.
Because luckily, FFSA at least lets them test with them, which I think is great.
And what are you going to understand?
Let them race then, FFSA.
Let them race, please.
What you got to understand about FFSA is that they're like simultaneously, they do the French F4 championship, but also they are kind of like the French version , of what's BRDC?
Or even more serious than that, because like their name is always on the cars and they support drivers.
They have like the FFSA Academy, which I still don't quite know what that is, but we will figure it out.
And they do a lot.
And French drivers are really advantaged and really lucky to get that kind of support.
I just really don't understand why you cannot have them race somewhere else, too, you know?
Yeah, because you don't, ultimately in F1 Academy, you don't get that much track time.
So it's so important to be able to do another series, I believe.
And I mean, it's not like French F4 did not have women.
Like last season, I think they had four or five women.
So I think, wouldn't it be better if we supported women who are like, really doing stuff and moving up and getting more sponsors to, you know, also continue their path here?
That's a bit sad, but it's sadly also the same for Lisa Billard, who's like, to me, one of the standout names if we talk about women in single-seater racing.
Because for some reason, she's like on that list of women that always get mentioned when you talk about women in single-seater racing.
Yeah, unfortunately, though, she's not supported by an F1 team.
She's sponsored by Gatorade.
Really surprised me about that.
I know she was in the Aston Martin shootout and she was like pretty far off Matilda Paatz, which also really surprised me.
But I thought, and I was really sure, she would be getting on with Mercedes.
Yeah, there's nothing stopping these teams from having two drivers.
I mean, McLaren has two, well, three eventually.
So, I mean, it's a shame that it's just Gatorade,
because especially if it's one with the bigger teams, you have those facilities.
You can be such a help to the driver.
And worst of all, she's also at ART.
And what is going on at ART?
Like, in the last seasons, they were usually by far, like, the worst.
It's, I really worry for her because I think, just talent-wise,
she would, she should be, like, on the level of, like, I'd expect her to be, like, on the level of, like, Alba Larsen, you know, Feblermayr.
But with, you know, the way that she's, the team she's in, Gatorade is a sponsor.
What's Gatorade going to do?
They can give her a drink.
They can't give her, like, sim sessions or anything.
It'd be in her drink spotter during the race, you know, the Gatorade will fuel her.
It's going to give her that extra superpowers.
Wait, give me a minute.
Uh, my cat just tried to, you know, we talk about Aston Martin too much.
My cat just tried to take, uh, my sister’s Aston Martin car.
Gatorade is not even a common drink in France.
So why is Gatorade?
I mean, I don't even know how this connection happened.
I'm pretty sure Gatorade was banned in Germany.
I've never seen it before in the UK.
I've, like, never tried it before.
Is it possible that it's just really unpopular in Europe because it's emotionally American to me?
Um, I could imagine it's, like, not a European thing.
But let's move on to another team that is not known for providing the best of cars.
Hitech with Ava Dobson and Rachel Robertson.
Because, of course, their third driver is normally their, uh, wild car driver with Hitech.
Exactly.
Um, for Ava Dobson, I think it's going to be really interesting because she has done quite a lot already.
She was, uh, majorly doing stuff in the US.
But it's really hard for me to rate anything that happens in the US.
Because sometimes you have really great, uh, grids in the US.
You know, great drivers.
And they really fight.
And other times, you don't.
And we've seen the example.
Like, we had, uh, Nicole Havrda last season who finished, I think, sixth in, um, Formula Regional America.
Like, above F4.
And she was, like, by far one of the worst F1 Academy drivers.
So I think it's hard to judge that.
I think it really just depends on how they adapt.
Why does my cat want to eat the Aston Martin?
He's sending you a message.
So, um, she switched to GB4.
Which is, I think, kind of more possible to rate.
And she was really, really close to Megan Bruce.
Like, the whole season.
She only won the female driver's trophy.
Because, uh, she did one weekend more.
Because, you know, Megan missed it.
Because of Singapore.
And I don't have a lot to say about her, honestly.
Because I cannot really rate her.
Wait a minute.
I need to get my cat-
Okay.
Ava Dobson.
I do not really know how to rate her.
And what to expect of her.
Because I almost worry that she could, like, be one of the really markers we had with, like, Nicole Havrida, Aiva Anagnostiadis, and Joanne Ciconte last season.
Because she's also supported by Amex.
And with Hitech, I don't think she's in the best position to get anywhere.
Because.
Unless with Amex they pay for a really good engine.
But, like, even last year with Nicole Havrida.
Do we remember in, was it Las Vegas, which was the last round?
Where she had a special livery..
And no one mentioned it until after the race.
And I was watching her.
And I was like, that's not, that's not the usual car we have on the screen.
Like, what's happening here?
No one mentioned it.
It was just, and it was a really nice livery, too.
That was horrible.
I was really disappointed.
And then, like, Ava Dobson, Rachel Robertson also did not have an F1 team supporting her.
Instead, she is sponsored by Puma.
At least they're sports-related and not AMEX.
Puma at least can give her shoes.
Racing boots.
There's all kinds, if you've seen the posts by Aurelia Noble that she had, like, 20 pairs of Puma shoes because she always gets them.
Which I think is kind of hilarious.
She had a decent showing in Vegas last year in the sprint.
She finished fourth, so.
I often mix up Esmee Kosterman and her because both of them have kind of done, like, these weird series.
She's done the Radical Cup UK, which someone tried to explain it to me, but I still don't quite know what it is.
But to me, it just shows these drivers, they don't just, you know, try to go the linear path.
And if it doesn't work, you know, they give up.
But they drive everything that you give them.
You can put them in everything.
They would try it.
And I think on its simultaneous, it's really beautiful.
And it really shows to me that it's real interest in racing.
And there's this huge, really, interest.
And they're willing to fight for it.
And they're willing to do anything.
And they're willing to try anything as long as they get to race.
But simultaneously, it's so sad to me because why I'll be keeping potentially great drivers in these series just because they're a woman.
It's, you know, it's sad.
I think, I really hope that she does well.
But what we just said about Ava Dobson also counts for her.
She's with Puma.
She's with Hitech.
I hope Hitech as a team can make a step up from last season because they seem really disoriented at some point.
You know, it was their first season.
They didn't have any experience before that.
But other than that, I don't expect quite a lot of her, sadly.
There's generally low expectations for Hitech, I mean.
But it's not because I don't rate them as drivers.
It's just that I think we need to be honest.
A driver in PREMA with an F1 team backing will always have more advantages and more, you know, possibilities to get somewhere than a driver in Hitech with no team sponsor.
And, you know, no support when it comes to simulators.
No support when it comes to, like, training and stuff.
Yeah, I mean, I feel like that's everything I have to hear about the drivers.
But the calendar is looking quite interesting, I think.
Excitingly, we have both Silverstone and the Circuit of the Americas returning, which are…
I love COTA.
It's honestly one of my favourite tracks, apart from Silverstone.
And Silverstone, I am biased, there is a bit of, you know, patriotism associated with it.
I mean, I feel like I know that we cannot race on a lot of, like, the usual circuits because it's already so filled with a Porsche Cup, F2, F3.
But if we have to race in different circuits, then at least, please, at least give me circuits like COTA because I expect COTA to be great.
We had it in 2023 already, and I swear it was good.
It was nice.
It was definitely better than Miami.
Yeah.
I mean, they're placing Miami and Singapore, which ultimately just aren't suited for F4 cars.
But COTA could also, I don't know, has Kaylee Countryman raced at COTA?
But I think COTA is just like an American circuit.
So even if she has not raced it, she should be able to, you know, be used to the way that American circuits usually behave.
If you can say it like that, like the way the tracks…
What's the word for the stuff that's on the ground, the fabric?
The asphalt.
You know, she's used to the way the asphalt behaves.
She's used to the way that the weather behaves and weather and the asphalt mix up.
She's probably used to how to treat tyres.
I think a great thing about Silverstone and COTA is you just get so much publicity.
Like, there'll be so much support at Silverstone.
I hope, like, I was there this year.
And last time, even for the F4 races, there were some people showing up.
So I hope for the…
Silverstone, we could look at it if British F4 drives on Silverstone.
Because I could imagine drivers looking at doing the same as they did with Zandford.
Again, I expect a lot of drivers to go to Zandvoort for the British F4 round again and, you know, gain a bit of track.
gain a bit of experience.
And I would love as many F1 team sponsors back to that as possible.
Because I think it's a great thing.
I think it's amazing to do stuff like that.
Unfortunately, firstly, I just want to say that we hope everyone stays safe.
And, of course, we're seeing it's not the biggest priority, given what is currently happening in the Middle East at the moment.
And our thoughts are with everyone currently affected by the conflict.
But due to the current situation, it probably means that Jeddah, which is scheduled for April in about a month's time, is going to get cancelled.
I mean, if things were perfect, the war would, like, end right now.
No one would get hurt.
And, you know, everyone would kind of get a result in which they're happy, in which no one gets hurt anymore.
But sadly, we do not live in my utopic idea of everyone has the life that they not just deserve, but that they want to have.
And it's really majorly just horrible for the people.
And I almost feel bad for mentioning it.
But for our racing series, it obviously means they're not going to be able to race there.
And especially if we talk about F1 Academy, we have a limit in how much teams can spend.
So while I would love to see them race somewhere else, I would obviously race somewhere else in general.
But it's just not a possibility this season.
Because I think the limit is £100,000 that, you know, it can cost as much.
I don't know if, like, hotels and, you know, transport is included in that.
And I doubt it.
But for the seat itself, it's £100,000 or around £100,000.
The thing is, if you were to now say, hey, we go to Brazil instead and we go to, like, São Paulo.
I love São Paulo.
I think it's one of those circuits that I would love to see them race at.
It just gets so expensive for the whole series to go there.
And with the other European F1 rounds, unfortunately, just the calendar doesn't work out.
Because on pretty much, I think with all the other European circuits, you have F2, F3 and Porsche Cup.
And there's no way, unfortunately, the schedule can fit in five different series.
That is just a bit too unpractical.
Even if they could fit it, I don't think they would.
Because you have to consider the cost of F1 Academy having to transport all of their stuff there.
Because usually, I assume that even if you have, like, a month's break, you don't ship stuff back to, like, the country where they're originally located at.
Because what I know from F1 logistics, at least, it's, like, look at the calendar.
We race, obviously, in America twice.
But there's almost a month between it in end of October at and end of November in Las Vegas.
And technically, technically, they could ship cars back in time.
But obviously, that's a stupid *** idea.
So, you know, they won't be doing it.
They will be putting the cars on, probably, trucks and sending it down to Las Vegas already.
So, unfortunately, this means, for me, the F1 Academy calendar is already limited with only 14 races.
And ultimately, we'll just be down to six rounds with 12 races.
Unless they maybe add additional races elsewhere, that is also possible.
Like, we saw in Canada last year they had three races, 3 getting cancelled in Miami.
But it is a bit of a shame overall.
Like, Jeddah has generally been a bit of a fun circuit, I feel like.
But, of course, that is not the biggest priority at the moment.
But I think now that we've kind of covered the calendar, one last thing that I wanted to talk about F1 Academy in general.
Just to, you know, lighten the mood a bit again.
To talk about positive things.
It's the 8th of March.
It's the International Women's Day.
And I think if we talk about women in motorsport, people often like to criticize F1 Academy.
There's also a lot that I could criticize.
But I want to take the chance, I want to take the day, and also kind of think about the good things that F1 Academy has already done.
And the good ways that F1 Academy has already impacted drivers.
You know, we talked about GB4 having the Female Driver Trophy now.
And maybe in the future, that Female Driver Trophy could be changed from just the money being just used for F1 Academy to the money going to any further racing series.
If a driver wins or gets runner-up in GB4 again, why not use that money to afford a GB3 season?
But, you know, there's something that can happen now.
Because someone put the foot down and said, we see F1 Academy, we see this huge rise in numbers of female drivers.
I think this season, you can hardly go into any single Formula 4 without seeing at least one, usually more, female names.
I've been already thinking about the wild card drivers, and it's so hard to choose because there's so many drivers.
There's so many drivers doing things.
There's so many drivers getting into F4.
There's so many drivers, you know, trying their hands.
I saw the numbers.
There's over 100%, I think it was like 400% or something, rise in female participation in parting races.
And it's such a great thing to see.
And we see it with the drivers that we talked about today already, that we have drivers who wanted to race and who, you know, look for this opportunity.
And for drivers who cannot really afford to just go into any F4 series because they're not, you know, loaded as, you know, crazy loaded.
For them, it's finally the opportunity to do an F4 series.
And I mean, we had that one great, great commentary thing in UA4, which I always think about.
And it's even applicable here.
You know, I sadly don't think we have the path yet to go from F1 Academy to F1.
And so, you know, not all of them will magically end up in F1.
Maybe we will be lucky and see some of them make it, especially of the younger people.
But much more importantly, I think we will see a rise in female involvement all across the series.
We see a rise in Formula E already with the female drivers test, with female drivers just being ever present at the rookie tests.
Now, I think recently it was only announced that Ella Lloyd would join Envision again.
And Abbi Pulling is expected to join Nissan again and probably Mahindra with Chloe Chambers.
We see huge rise in female drivers across GT series, not just with Iron Dames, but there's also a girls only team in the Nürngring Endurance series.
We see it with the drivers that have, you know, come from the series to make their path.
Now, well, so even if it's not F1 and even if we talk about F3 and F2, F1 won't be the end for a lot of them.
But it will be other series and you have Doriane Pin doing LMP2 now again.
You have Chloe Chambers probably making this step through ET.
It reminds me of what Sanson was saying on the F4 broadcast, remember?
It's just what I was referencing because it's beautiful.
Hopefully we'll see Cade Countryman join the Indy 500.
And we have Dorian Pinn doing the 24 hours of Le Mans.
And we can have someone else hopefully soon make it to F1 and FE.
And I'm running out of series I can mention.
Super Formula, you know, Joanne Ciconte, last season made it to Kyojo Cup and is now racing in Japan.
Why not?
Let's f***ing go.
Before we, you know, finish up, I want to ask for your prediction, Peter.
What is your prediction?
We can do it in the same way that F1 Academy did.
Who do you think will be?
Teams champion, drivers champion, best rookie and biggest standout?
Teams champion is going to be Rodin, I think.
Champion, Palmowski.
Highest rookie…
I think probably Ella Stevens.
And biggest standout?
Standout, is going, can I repeat drivers or should I say someone else?
Yeah, obviously you can also say group of drivers or team or…
I think actually, can I say, like, I'm not going to say, aside from the title fight being Palmowski and Lloyd.
I think Larsen had kind of a breakout here as well.
So I definitely agree with Rodin.
I think they have the strongest lineup in general.
I think, obviously, I'm going to be, for the title fight, it's going to be Palmowski.
And you all will see me on Twitter going hardcore for this.
For the highest rookie, I think I'll be biased and I'll go for Matilda Paatz.
And for the biggest standout, I'm going to say it's going to be the wildcard drivers this year.
Because I think, especially in Silverstone, I expect something.
Silverstone is going to be a great weekend because…
The vibe there, at the race, everybody's so supportive, so nice.
And it's going to be great to get that sort of attention on F1 Academy.
And, again, the series is great for them attracting sponsors.
Hopefully, you know, sponsors will see them doing well and get them more funding.
And, yeah.
Anyways, I think that'll be it for this episode of the Grand Prequel Pod.
Be sure to give us a follow on Twitter, Instagram, and TikTok, @grandprequel.
And let us know your thoughts about this episode.
And who you think will be champion.
I want to know it.
And the best rookie.
You want- we need to know.
Yeah.
And in the next episode, we'll be reviewing the recent F2 and F3 races at Australia.
so let us know your thoughts on those as well.